# What are E-Bikes and why can they be a safety concern for young people?

## Introduction
E-Bikes are motorized bicycles and the main components include a battery, monitor, motor, frame. They work by using the battery to power a motor which powers your bike speed up and can reach moderately high speeds. E-Bikes can however be a safety concern for young people as they can reach high speeds and can be hard to control.

## Benefits of E-Bikes
The benefits of E-Bikes include transportation, independence, and exercise have contributed to the rise of E-bike usage.Other main factors which contribute to the rise of E-bikes include peer-pressure and social status which is why so many young people lean towards E-Bikes.

## Safety Concerns
Safety has become a large concern as a rise of injuries and even death have been noticed. Young people are using E-bikes mainly due to peer pressure and can make unsafe decisions to promote their social status. Sydney's Children Hospital reports a rise from 60 injuries to 100 injuries from 2022 - 2024. The police have been involved to reduce these incidents as new laws have been put into place to minimise accidents. The new laws allow for police to destroy illegal bikes which break the speed limit and modified ones. In NSW, E-bikes max speed must be 25km/h or lower to ensure safety. Common injuries from E-bikes include, Head damage, broken bones, injured spines and body, and even death. That is why safety prevents incidents as the usage continues to grow.

## Reasons for Use and Safety Strategies
Possible reasons why people use E-Bikes are usually, peer pressure, social status, independence or exercise. The main age group using these bikes are the young people section which are accountable to most of the injuries seen by NSW hospitals. Ways to keep yourself safe and strategies to avoid being wounded include, safety equipment, logical thinking, and awareness of risks.

## Conclusion
To conclude, E-Bikes have become an integral part of modern society and hence safety and precaution must be accounted for. Using safety equipment and having awareness can help young people prevent accidents.

