# What are E-Bikes and why can they be a safety concern for young people?

## Introduction
E-Bikes are motorized bicycles and the main components include a battery, monitor, motor, frame. They work by using the battery to power a motor which helps the bike speed up and can reach moderately high speeds. E-Bikes can however be a safety concern for young people as they can reach high speeds and can be hard to control.

## Benefits of E-Bikes
The benefits of e-bikes, including transportation, independence, and exercise, have contributed to their rise in popularity. Other main factors which contribute to the rise of E-bikes include peer-pressure and social status which is why so many young people lean towards E-Bikes.

## Safety Concerns
Safety has become a large concern as a rise of injuries and even death have been noticed. Young people are using E-bikes mainly due to peer pressure and the desire for social status often leads young people to take unnecessary risks and unsafes decisions. Sydney's Children Hospital reports a rise from 60 injuries to 100 injuries from 2022 - 2024. The police have been involved to reduce these incidents as new laws have been put into place to minimise accidents. The new laws allow for police to destroy illegal bikes which break the speed limit and modified ones. In NSW, E-bikes maximum speed must be 25km/h or lower to ensure that any possible accident can be minimised and allow for more control given to the rider. Common injuries from E-bikes include head injuries, broken bones, spinal and bodily injuries, and even death. That is why safety prevents incidents as the usage continues to grow.

## Reasons for Use and Safety Strategies
The main age group using these bikes are the young people who are responsible for most of the injuries seen by NSW hospitals.This age group may be more inclined to engage in unsafe behaviour due to social status or a desire for independence. Peer pressure can also cause incidents, as young people may take risks such as speeding to impress others. Ways to keep yourself safe and strategies to avoid being injured include, safety equipment, logical thinking, and awareness of risks.

## Conclusion
To conclude, E-Bikes have become an integral part of modern society and hence safety and precaution must be accounted for. Using safety equipment and having awareness can help young people prevent accidents.

